Canker sores are open sores
that occur inside the mouth.
They are not related to
fever blisters or cold sores.
Cankers are typically caused by a
viral infection, stress, hormonal changes,
menstrual periods, food allergies, vitamin deficiencies,
mouth trauma or by a weakened immune system.
This mouth ulcer typically starts
as a small bump that may cause a
tingling or burning sensation.
Within a day or two, a small red blister rises.
It develops into a shallow white or yellowish
open wound with a red border,
usually about one centimeter in size.
Just before beginning to heal,
the sore may turn gray.
The pain and wound usually subside
within 7 to 10 days,
although it can take up to three weeks for a
canker sore to completely heal.
Canker sores usually do not require treatment.
They go away on their own
and they do not cause cancer.